
      ___
    C(o o)O     C H U N K Y   M O N K E Y
      (.)   \
     w====m==|       minecraft server
            /

Chunky Monkey is a Minecraft Beta multiplayer server.  It is licensed under
the MIT open source license, please see the LICENSE file for more information.

Website: http://github.com/huin/chunkymonkey
Mailing list: https://groups.google.com/group/chunkymonkey-minecraft
Contact: [John Beisley][3]

Status
------

Chunky Monkey is currently in early development and does not yet run anything
that could be considered a full game experience.

Worlds generated by Alpha or Beta Notchian clients or servers can be loaded by
the server.

Features include:

*   Compatibility with Minecraft Beta clients.
*   Blocks may be dug, items picked up, and blocks placed.
*   Crafting using the 2x2 or 3x3 crafting grids and the furnace.
*   Partial item physics.
*   World persistency.
*   Basic world generation.

Currently missing features include:

*   Block physics.
*   Complete item physics (there is a minimal implementation in place).
*   Mob behaviour.
*   Many block interactions.
*   Decent world generation.


Contributing
------------

Chunky Monkey is looking for assistance in furthering its development.

Key skills:

*   Use of Git and Github.
*   Moderate skill in the Go programming language.
*   Ability to write clear, maintainable code.
*   Unit testing knowledge.
*   Understanding of goroutine concurrency primitives.

Highly desireable skills:

*   Embedding a scripting environment (perhaps Lua?) into Go.
*   Low-latency reliable network communication.
*   Server scalabilty and reliability architecture.
*   Service monitoring.
*   World generation (including noise generation).

If you're interested in working on the project - it's best to contact [Huin][3]
via Github, or on the Freenode IRC network in the #mcdevs channel.


Requirements
------------

The [Go toolchain][1] must be installed. Note that chunkymonkey is developed
against the current stable release of the Go toolchain, so might not compile
against the weekly releases (gofix might be able to fix such cases).


Building & Testing
------------------

[Godag][2] is used to build chunkymonkey. Install it, and run:

    $ make

If you are developing, you are encouraged to run the unit tests with:

    $ make test

The unit tests require [GoMock][4] to be installed.


Running
-------

Serve up a single player world:

    $ bin/chunkymonkey ~/.minecraft/saves/World1
    2010/10/03 16:32:13 Listening on  :25565

Record/replay
-------------

For debugging it is often useful to record a player's actions and replay them
one or more times later.  This makes it possible to simulate multiplayer games
without having real people logging in.

To record a session, run the intercept proxy:

    $ bin/intercept -record player.log localhost:25567 localhost:25565

Which will accept client connections on localhost port 25567 and relay the
connection to the server at localhost port 25565. This has the side effect of
display packets that pass through to stderr.

Connect your Minecraft client to localhost:25567, and a record of the clients
actions will be stored to player.log-1, player.log-2 etc. (one file per client
connection).

To replay a session:

    $ bin/replay localhost:25565 player.log-1


[1]: http://golang.org/doc/install.html          "Go toolchain installation"
[2]: http://code.google.com/p/godag/wiki/Install "Godag builder"
[3]: https://github.com/huin                     "Huin on Github"
[4]: http://code.google.com/p/gomock/            "GoMock mocking library"
